## Ampersand

is an [electronic book](link) ([hardware](HARDWARE/_hardware.md) or [digital format](link) and [reading application](link)), focused on [readers' inputs](link) and their [social applications](link).

Annotations are [optimised](link), grouped in [radial diagrams](link), and [located](link) in the [information landscape](link).


https://medium.com/black-lion-banner/the-history-of-the-ampersand-c81839171940
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application-specific_integrated_circuit
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/One_Laptop_per_Child
Ampersand comes from et. The idea is to reinforce the collaborative aspect of the format, as in "Reader & book".
Scrapbooks are collections of unrelated user notes, in any form available. When they are organised in a tree structure, they become meshes.   Public notes and meshes can be shared, ranked, combined with other notes and commented, just like books. They are dynamic, though, not to be considered finished, unless marked as such.   Unpublished user-created meshes are considered scrapbooks, and can be made from scratch; from system-generated meshes; or from public meshes. They can be kept private indefinitely or optimized and shared in three ways: as full meshes; as parts of larger meshes; or as locations in the information landscape.
One Laptop per Child (OLPC) was a non-profit initiative with the goal of transforming children education by creating and distributing educational devices and content. This became the OLPC XO Laptop, a low-cost and low-power laptop computer. The project was originally funded by member organizations such as AMD, eBay, Google, Red Hat etc. Specs in http://laptop.org/en/laptop/hardware/specs.shtml
An application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) is a chip customized for a particular use, for example, a chip designed to run in a digital voice recorder or a high-efficiency bitcoin miner is an ASIC. Application-specific standard product (ASSP) chips are intermediate between ASICs and industry standard integrated circuits.
The Ampersand is a ligature of E and T (latin word for and). As Romans expanded their empire, many languages  absorbed this ligature into their  alphabets. The word “ampersand” is an alteration of the phrase “et, per se and” (“et by itself [means] and”), which was then became “and, per-se and”, and eventually evolved into ampersand.
Hardware and inspiration: e-ink, KindleMesh network, OLPCNon-glaring screen, KindleTouch-resistant screen, skinsFlash StorageCover, KindleCameraAudio recorder
All readable e-book formats are eligible. Image-only PDFs, .djvu, or DRM-protected formats like .azw will not be converted into meshes. In markup-formatted text with no TOC, headings H1-H6 will be converted to a mesh.
TBD: stylus?, iPad Pro
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mesh_networking
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IEEE_802.11s
http://www.open80211s.org/
A mesh network is a local network topology in which the infrastructure nodes connect directly, dynamically and non-hierarchically to as many other nodes as possible and cooperate with one another to efficiently route data from/to clients. Mesh networks dynamically self-organize and self-configure, which can reduce installation overhead. The ability to self-configure enables dynamic distribution of workloads, particularly in the event a few nodes should fail. This in turn contributes to fault-tolerance and reduced maintenance costs.
IEEE 802.11s is a wireless LAN standard and an IEEE 802.11 amendment for mesh networking, defining how wireless devices can interconnect to create a wireless LAN (WLAN) mesh network, which may be used for relatively fixed (not mobile) topologies and wireless ad hoc networks. A wireless mesh network, sometimes called WMN, is a typical wireless network but using a mesh topology instead. These networks are often seen as special ad-hoc networks since there's no central node that will break connectivity.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wireless_mesh_network
A wireless mesh network (WMN) is a communications network made up of radio nodes organized in a mesh topology, which can also be a form of wireless ad hoc network. A mesh refers to rich interconnection among devices or nodes. Wireless mesh networks often consist of mesh clients, mesh routers and gateways.  In a wireless mesh network, topology tends to be more static, so that routes computation can converge and delivery of data to their destinations can occur. If nodes constantly or frequently move, the mesh spends more time updating routes than delivering data. It is a low-mobility centralized form of wireless ad hoc network.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anonymous_P2P
An anonymous P2P communication system is a peer-to-peer distributed application in which the nodes, which are used to share resources, or participants are anonymous or pseudonymous. Anonymity is usually achieved by special routing overlay networks that hide the physical location of each node from other participants.
When an e-book or electronic text document is imported into the Open Annotation Format, its index/TOC is  copied to a mesh, and its ISBN (if available) is queried to manage its position in the information landscape, and whether there are already any direct or indirect references to it or its authors.   The idea is not to have a book store, nor a proprietary format. Piracy is not a platform concern, it does not scan private user content, only public user meshes, which are also hosted and registered in a blockchain.
http://www.open-mesh.org/projects/open-mesh/wiki
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wireless_ad_hoc_network
B. A. T. M. A. N. (better approach to mobile ad-hoc networking) is a routing protocol for multi-hop ad-hoc mesh networks under development by the German "Freifunk" community. It is focused on the decentralization of knowledge about the best route through the network — no single node has all the data. This technique eliminates the need to spread information about network changes to every node in the network. Data gets passed from node to node, and packets get individual, dynamically created routes.
A wireless ad hoc network (WANET) or mobile ad hoc network (MANET) is a decentralized type of wireless network. It is "ad hoc" because it does not rely on a pre-existing infrastructure, such as routers or access points. Each node participates in routing by forwarding data for other nodes, so the determination of which nodes forward data is made dynamically on the basis of network connectivity and the routing algorithm in use.   In the Windows operating system, ad hoc is a communication mode (setting) that allows computers to directly communicate with each other without a router. Wireless mobile ad hoc networks are self-configuring, dynamic networks in which nodes are free to move.
Reading Application to be used in generic devices and desktop apps. Must haves: e-book readerAccess to camera / filesRadial diagramming softwareNote-taking Audio recording
Notes can only become public when their author is logged to the system, even if offline. Only logged users can submit content, comment or act on the network.   Unpublished user-created meshes are considered scrapbooks, and can be made from scratch; from system-generated meshes; or from public meshes.
Welcome add-ons: OCR Voice- recognition Machine vision
Reader's inputs (which, in printed books, are recorded in marginalia) can be of any form available (recordings, dictations, selected excerpts, drawings, handwritten text, photos, videos and links)
Social applications: ﻿most digital readers allow for sharing and commenting book excerpts through social media, but usually in a non-structured way, that may focus on one or more passages, but rarely on the book as a whole. By sharing whole book annotations, Ampersands can turn books into focused social media, comparing  approaches and readings out of the same subject.
http://elixir-lang.org/
Distributed processing: functional programming languages like Elixir can be used for back-end,  known for running low-latency, distributed, and fault-tolerant systems.
Radial diagrams are used to visually organize information hierarchically, showing the relationships among pieces of the whole. They are often created around a single concept in the center, to which associated representations of ideas are added. Major ideas are connected directly to the central concept, and other concepts branch out from them.
The system is designed to work seamlessly, no matter its connection status. In offline mode, all social features will be disabled, and some activities, like mesh upload or update can be stored for later usage.
AI content management: all non-public user content is regarded as private, to be ignored by all platform management. Cloud backups, when available, are to be encoded through cryptography. All public data, graphs and user blockchain databases processing is to be distributed among all connected hardware and apps.
An information landscape is a graphic metaphor to visualize abstract data groups in different depth levels. Its visitors can use different "vehicles" and follow different routes to get to the information needed - e. g. a "guided tour bus" gives an overview of the journey, with a broad scope, but little freedom, while "walking aimlessly" usually leads to the opposite. The idea is to provide only one information structure, to be experienced in many different ways.
Locations in the info landscape are the addresses in the graphic representation of the content. Number systems like ISBN can be used.
Readers which develop public meshes become ﻿collaborators, coworkers whose work comes along with the original, to be read as a comment, like a preface or a workbook.
AI content optimization: the system is able to discern content elements, in order to group them into similar themes and attribute value to usual associations (following the idea that neurons that fire together, wire together) in a way that they become evident in public and suggested meshes, as well as in the information landscape, no matter how they were recorded.
A mesh is a circular tree diagram, displayed in hyperbolic space. User meshes are graphs represented, compared and combined in these structures. System-generated meshes are  created automatically by the system, usually based on a document TOC.
User blockchain database: all public content is registered in a blockchain database, and can be traced to its owner. Bots are not allowed and should be blocked without previous notice. Unsuitable content can result in hardware lock.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number
The International Standard Book Number (ISBN) is an unique numeric commercial book identifier, purchased from the International ISBN Agency and its affiliates. The number is 10 digits long if assigned before 2007, and 13 digits long after that. The assigning method is nation-specific and varies between countries, often depending on how large the publishing industry is. Article on using ISBN as Uniform Resource Names: http://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3187
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Library_of_Congress_Classification
The Library of Congress Classification is a system of library classification used for shelving books in a library. It has been criticized for lacking a sound theoretical basis; many of the classification decisions were driven by the practical needs of that library rather than epistemological considerations. Although it divides subjects into broad categories, it is essentially enumerative in nature. That is, it provides a guide to the books actually in one library's collections, not a classification of the world.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hyperbolic_tree
A hyperbolic tree is an information visualization and graph drawing method inspired by hyperbolic geometry. Nodes in focus are placed in the center and given more room, while out-of-focus nodes are compressed near  boundaries. Focusing on a different node brings it and its children to the center of the disk, while uninteresting portions of the tree are compressed. Hyperbolic trees employ hyperbolic space, which intrinsically has "more room" than Euclidean space. The Poincaré disk model of hyperbolic geometry displays the entire hyperbolic plane within a unit disk, making the entire tree visible at once. The unit disk gives a fish-eye lens view of the plane, giving more emphasis to nodes which are in focus and displaying nodes further out of focus closer to the boundary of the disk. Hyperbolic trees were patented in the U.S. by Xerox in 1996, since expired.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Library_of_Congress_Classification
The Dewey Decimal Classification, or Dewey Decimal System, is a proprietary library classification system. OCLC, a non-profit cooperative that serves libraries, currently maintains the system and licenses online access to WebDewey, a continuously updated version for catalogers. It introduced the concepts of relative location and index, which allow new books to be added to a library in their appropriate location based on subject.  The classification's notation makes use of three-digit numbers for main classes, with fractional decimals allowing expansion for further detail. Numbers can be expanded to cover special aspects of general subjects. A library assigns a classification number that unambiguously locates a particular volume in a position relative to other books in the library, on the basis of its subject. It is used in 200,000 libraries in at least 135 countries. Wikipedia has a comparison of Dewey and Library of Congress subject classification systems: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_Dewey_and_Library_of_Congress_subject_classification
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia%3AContents%2FCategories
Main Wikipedia Categories are General reference / Culture and the arts /   Geography and places / Health and fitness / History and events / Human activities / Mathematics and logic / Natural and physical sciences / People and self / Philosophy and thinking / Religion and belief systems / Society and social sciences / Technology and applied sciences.
CONCEPTS
USAGE
NOTES, REFs etc
