# Information Landscape
Definition

An information landscape is a graphic metaphor to visualize abstract data groups in different depth levels. Its visitors can use different "vehicles" and follow different routes to get to the information needed - e. g. a "guided tour bus" gives an overview of the journey, with a broad scope, but little freedom, while "walking aimlessly" usually leads to the opposite. The idea is to provide only one information structure, to be experienced in many different ways.
Locations in the info landscape are the addresses in the graphic representation of the content. Number systems like ISBN can be used.
Readers which develop public meshes become ﻿collaborators, coworkers whose work comes along with the original, to be read as a comment, like a preface or a workbook.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number
The International Standard Book Number (ISBN) is an unique numeric commercial book identifier, purchased from the International ISBN Agency and its affiliates. The number is 10 digits long if assigned before 2007, and 13 digits long after that. The assigning method is nation-specific and varies between countries, often depending on how large the publishing industry is. Article on using ISBN as Uniform Resource Names: http://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3187	http://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3187
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Library_of_Congress_Classification	http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Library_of_Congress_Classification
The Library of Congress Classification is a system of library classification used for shelving books in a library. It has been criticized for lacking a sound theoretical basis; many of the classification decisions were driven by the practical needs of that library rather than epistemological considerations. Although it divides subjects into broad categories, it is essentially enumerative in nature. That is, it provides a guide to the books actually in one library's collections, not a classification of the world.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Library_of_Congress_Classification
The Dewey Decimal Classification, or Dewey Decimal System, is a proprietary library classification system. OCLC, a non-profit cooperative that serves libraries, currently maintains the system and licenses online access to WebDewey, a continuously updated version for catalogers. It introduced the concepts of relative location and index, which allow new books to be added to a library in their appropriate location based on subject.  The classification's notation makes use of three-digit numbers for main classes, with fractional decimals allowing expansion for further detail. Numbers can be expanded to cover special aspects of general subjects. A library assigns a classification number that unambiguously locates a particular volume in a position relative to other books in the library, on the basis of its subject. It is used in 200,000 libraries in at least 135 countries. Wikipedia has a comparison of Dewey and Library of Congress subject classification systems: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_Dewey_and_Library_of_Congress_subject_classification

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia%3AContents%2FCategories	http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia%3AContents%2FCategories
Main Wikipedia Categories are General reference / Culture and the arts /   Geography and places / Health and fitness / History and events / Human activities / Mathematics and logic / Natural and physical sciences / People and self / Philosophy and thinking / Religion and belief systems / Society and social sciences / Technology and applied sciences.
